# consensus

Just as in any blockchain that is grown through a distributed lottery called "proof of work", there must be rules to arbitrate whether a new block is considered to be canonical.

1. Kismet governance chain does not issue fungible tokens - there is not and never will be a way to novate (issue new key pair based on old, necessary for exchange) governance tokens, and they expire when the current supply rate passes the defined threshold.
2. Forks are permitted, and merged blocks beat fork extending blocks, to maintain a single chain. Merged blocks difficulty targets are equal to the average of the blocks they merge together. Forks mean a rise in difficulty as number of blocks per time defines difficulty, which applies to the block after a fork (which will be a merge, because it trumps extension), but the merging blocks are easier in the same way as would be if there was no fork.
3. The merge blocks are easier as in only at the average of the two parent difficulties, they supersede fork extensions and fork merges compete on their hash weight. The difficulty afterwards will be as though three blocks came in the time period, which will likely be significantly shorter than the chain's time target.
4. The governance chain has the potential to regulate issuance of 256 different token types, which potentially can be multiple other different chains. There would be no need to replicate the Proposal and Congress tokens, if needed they could be increased in frequency and active number to handle a larger number of governed chains.
5. The validator chain, and the proposal chain are separate chains. Likewise, any added chains created by different token types can be on their own chains. Proof of Work mining has structural limit of around 12 second average global propagation rate, so each chain can probably handle this rate of token issuance independently. If it ever became necessary to extend the number of tokens beyond 256, it is unlikely that 65536 would be exceeded.